
# Breadth First Search for 8 Puzzle


## Description

This Python code implements Breadth First Search algorithm for solving the 8-puzzle problem. The 8-puzzle problem is a sliding puzzle that consists of a frame of numbered square tiles in random order with one tile missing. The challenge of the game is to move the tiles from their initial positions to a final position, using the empty space.

## Requirements

-   Python 3.x
-   NumPy library
-   Time module

## Installation

1.  Install Python 3.x on your computer.
2.  Install NumPy library using the following command:
    ```
    pip install numpy
    ``` 
3.  The time module comes with Python’s standard utility module, so there is no need to install it externally.

## Usage

1.  Open the file `bfs_search.py` in any Python IDE or text editor.
2.  Modify the start node and goal node matrices in the python program as per your requirement (for different test cases).
3.  Run the program in the ide or in a terminal using `python bfs_search.py`.
4.  The output will display the steps taken to solve the 8-puzzle problem and the final path taken to reach the goal node.
5.  The program also generates two text files, `nodePath.txt`, `NodesInfo.txt` and `Nodes.txt`, which contain the path taken, Node info(i.e. Node_index,Parent_Node_index,Node) and explored nodes respectively.

## Functionality

The program contains the following functions:

1.  `ActionMoveLeft(curr_node)` - Moves the blank tile left in the puzzle, if possible.
2.  `ActionMoveRight(curr_node)` - Moves the blank tile right in the puzzle, if possible.
3.  `ActionMoveUp(curr_node)` - Moves the blank tile up in the puzzle, if possible.
4.  `ActionMoveDown(curr_node)` - Moves the blank tile down in the puzzle, if possible.
5.  `generate_path(parents, final_node, explored)` - Generates the path from initial node to final node using backtracking.
6.  `solve_puzzle(initial_node, final_node)` - Solves the 8-puzzle problem using Breadth First Search algorithm.
7.  `write_files(path, explored, parents)` - Writes path, Node info and explored nodes to text files.
8.  `print_matrix()` - Prints the path generated by back tracking in matrix (for visualization)

## Output

The output of the program displays the steps taken to solve the 8-puzzle problem and the final path taken to reach the goal node and the time taken to solve the puzzle. The program also generates two text files, `nodePath.txt` and `nodeInfo.txt`, which contain the path taken and explored nodes, respectively.